As we have seen, segmentation
strategy is an alternative,
an option that makes sense
in many circumstances.
Especially when the big players
in a market that play differentiation,
low cost, etc.,
have left gaps.
That is, there are opportunities
and it is really that many times
the logical alternative for smaller
companies than when they are born
are able to identify a small opportunity,
a gap that the large competitors
have not covered, a gap as
far as dissatisfied customers,
as far as some product
is to be developed, etc.
There are challenges
in the segmentation strategy.
Well, the first, it is obvious,
is that the size of the market
has to be large enough.
You can't throw yourself into a niche
that results in the size being too
small and in the end it's that
you don't have enough size, after
sitting in a niche, if you
want to grow your company, if you
want to become a competitor,
well differentiation or low cost,
start growing, well, for many times
you see yourself with that problem,
because you have focused
too much, you have too
specific knowledge in a
niche.
Then there are threats.
Threats are given from above
and from below, mainly from above,
that is, here we see it
on screen.
Competitors, the biggest competitors,
well, leaders in cost, in differentiation,
usually as soon as they
identify that there are
niches that are very profitable,
try to lower those niches,
try to steal that market share
from the niche competitor and
I put you an example.
We have seen several times
the comparison of Decathlon
with the bike store.
Well, Decathlon, identifying
that there is a certain volume
of business, what it does is create
specialized services within
Decathlon, hiring professional
specialized in bicycles,
etc.
This is clearly trying to compete
with its niche competitors,
with specialized stores.
Obviously it is still difficult
for Decathlon to acquire
that knowledge, that closeness
to customers and probably
cycling fans will tell you that
the service is much better in
a specialized store, but as
we see it is a threat.
We also talked about
craft beer.
Well, it's because big brands
also try to create products
that are very suited to compete
in those niches.
For example, in the case
of Osborne, he creates a
craft beer, relying on a manufacturer
of very high quality.
Another example, imagine that
you are a small office and
the big, the big four, the big
offices, etc., one day decide
that they want to expand
their range of services
and compete with you.
This is a threat, of course, that
in many cases will steal you customers.
But the threats not only come from
above, that is, from competitors
who are directed to the entire market
and who try as soon as they identify
that there are niches that are being
left to cover, they try to steal
you, but also sometimes come
from below, they come from a
strategy like the one you have
followed.
They come from a larger segmentation,
from a larger niche.
I will give you an example.
An e-commerce that decides
to focus on a niche that is
babies, right?
It has a clear
niche strategy.
What he does is, instead of selling
all kinds of products, babies
are concentrated, they know mothers
very well, they know the products
very well, etc., right?
But it turns out that they are
a competitor Good, because they are
competitors because there is
another competitor who is
still more specialized and sells only,
for example, a pan subscription
service.
It is a clear threat that has
arisen from a competitor that has
taken the segmentation or niche
strategy to a greater extreme.